Copyright (C) 2003 Billy Biggs.

This file is free documentation; Billy Biggs gives unlimited permission to
copy, distribute and modify it.

Installing tvtime
=================

This is the source code distribution of tvtime.  tvtime has been
packaged for many popular Linux distributions.  Please check our
download page on the tvtime website at http://tvtime.net/ to see if
there is a pre-packaged version of tvtime that you can use.  Our
packaged versions have all been approved for quality by the tvtime
authors.

Compiling tvtime
================

tvtime includes a configure script to enable you to customize your
installation.  By default, running configure without options will have
tvtime install itself and all required files under /usr/local.  To
instead use paths according to the Filesystem Hierarchy Standard, we
recommend you run configure with these options:

  ~/tvtime-0.9.11$ ./configure --prefix=/usr --sysconfdir=/etc

  This will have tvtime use /usr/bin for its executables,
/usr/share/tvtime for its data files, /etc/tvtime for its global
configuration files, and /usr/share/... for icons and menu entries.

  Next, compile tvtime using make.

  ~/tvtime-0.9.11$ make

  And then, install it as root.

  ~/tvtime-0.9.11$ su
  <enter password>
  /home/user/tvtime-0.9.11# make install

Compiling without SDL or DirectFB support
=========================================

tvtime has two optional dependencies for two special output layers,
namely DirectFB and SDL.  In some circumstances it may be necessary to
compile tvtime without these dependencies, for example, if you are
packaging tvtime for a distribution that does not ship with either SDL
or DirectFB.  To do this, simply use the options --without-sdl and
--without-directfb as follows:

  ~/tvtime-0.9.11$ ./configure --prefix=/usr --sysconfdir=/etc \
                               --without-sdl --without-directfb

Compiling with optimized CFLAGS
===============================

tvtime includes many hand-optimized assembly functions for different CPU
extensions, such as MMX and SSE.  We have also written a timingtest
application, and tested with different CPU flags.  The CPU flags we use
in tvtime have been tested to perform best in our timing tests using
gcc3 and on the P3 and P4 chips, as well as some AMD chips.

  Because of this, we strongly discourage users from using their own
"optimized" CFLAGS.  Using -march=pentium4 and options for using SSE and
MMX by the compiler has been shown to perform no faster and often slower
with tvtime.  If you feel that there are some compiler flags which could
improve, we would rather you show a test and example and post to our bug
tracker than silently use your own CFLAGS, so that we can test
ourselves.

  Please comment further on this on this bug report:

  http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=807035&group_id=64301&atid=506987

Packaging tvtime
================

We are always interested in hearing about new tvtime packages to put on
our download page, and are more than willing to look over packagings to
make sure that nothing is missing our possibly misconfigured.  If you
have made a package of tvtime, please contact me by sending an email to
vektor@dumbterm.net to let me know.

