.\" Man page for stationlist.xml
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, 2004  Billy Biggs
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at
.\" your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH stationlist.xml 5 "September 2004" "tvtime 0.9.14"

.SH NAME
stationlist.xml \- tvtime station configuration file

.SH SYNOPSIS

.I ~/.tvtime/stationlist.xml

.SH DESCRIPTION

The
.I stationlist.xml
file contains the configuration of channel information for capture 
cards with tuners.  It contains a list of active channels along with 
their frequencies, renumbering information, and channel name.  The 
.I stationlist.xml
file is updated by
.B tvtime
at runtime to store settings across sessions.  For this reason, you 
should not edit this file while
.B tvtime
is running, as your changes may be overwritten.

This file is created or updated whenever channel information is changed
in
.BR tvtime .
This is done when renumbering a channel, using the channel scanner, or
manually activating or deactivating a specific channel from the list.

Channel settings are saved specific to norm and frequency table.

    <?xml version="1.0"?>
    <!DOCTYPE stationlist PUBLIC "-//tvtime//DTD stationlist 1.0//EN"
      "http://tvtime.sourceforge.net/DTD/stationlist.dtd">
    <stationlist xmlns="http://tvtime.sourceforge.net/DTD/">
      <list norm="NTSC" frequencies="US-Cable">
        <station ... />
        ... station list
      </list>
    </stationlist>

That is, each norm/frequency combination will get its own section in the
configuration file.  The frequencies name is not special, you can have
frequencies="foobar" and running
.br
.h'4n'tvtime -f foobar
.br
will do the right thing.  The norm, however, must match the norm being
used.

Entries in a list are in the following form:

    <station name="CNN" active="1" position="18"
             band="US Cable" channel="18"/>
    <station name="DSF" active="1" position="12"
             band="VHF E2-E12" channel="E12"/>


.SH STATIONS

Each station has its own properties that should be set.

.TP
.B name
The human-readible name of the current station.

.TP
.B active
When set to
.IR 1 ,
the channel is active.  To deactivate the channel, set this value to
.IR 0 .

.TP
.B position
This setting specifies the position the channel occupies on the dial.
This allows users to arbitrarily map any particular channel to a 
particular position on the dial.

.TP
.PD 0
.B band
.TP
.B channel

The possible bands and channels available in
.B tvtime
are:
.PD

.TS
nokeep tab (@);
lb lb
l l.
Band name@Channels provided
US Cable@1\[en]99
US Cable 100@100\[en]125
US Two-Way@T7, T8, T9, T10, T11, T12 T13, T14
US Broadcast@2\[en]83
China Broadcast@1\[en]68, A1\[en]A7, B1\[en]B31, C1\[en]C5
Japan Broadcast@1\[en]62
Japan Cable@13\[en]63
VHF E2-E12@E1\[en]E12
VHF S1-S41@S1\[en]S41
VHF Misc@X, Y, Z, Z+1, Z+2
VHF France@K01\[en]K10, KB\[en]KQ, H01\[en]H19
VHF Russia@R1\[en]R12, SR1\[en]SR19
VHF Australia@AS1\[en]AS12, AS5A, AS9A
VHF Italy@A\[en]H, H1, H2
VHF Ireland@I1\[en]I9
UHF@U21\[en]U69
UHF Australia@AU28\[en]AU69
Australia Optus@01\[en]058
.TE

Custom channels can be included manually by specifying the frequency
in megahertz:

    <station name="2" active="1" position="0"
             band="Custom" channel="55.69MHz"/>

.TP
.B norm
A per-channel norm can be specified in the stationlist.  This is for
stations which receive both PAL and SECAM stations, such that they
can choose the colour encoding format per-channel.  The only valid
values here are either PAL or SECAM.

.TP
.B network
Sets the name of the network for the OSD display.  In NTSC regions, this
is set from the XDS information in the VBI if VBI decoding is enabled.

.TP
.B call
Sets the call letters of the network for the OSD display.  In NTSC
regions, this is set from the XDS information in the VBI if VBI decoding
is enabled.

.TP
.B xmltvid
Sets the XMLTV channel identifier to associate this channel with if tvtime
cannot automatically make the association.  For following channel definition
in an XMLTV file:

  <channel id="I10119.labs.zap2it.com">
    <display-name>CICA</display-name>
    <display-name>TV Ontario (CICA)</display-name>
    <display-name>Canadian Independent</display-name>
  </channel>

An associated stationlist entry would be:

    <station name="2" active="1" position="0"
             band="Custom" channel="55.69MHz"
             xmltvid="I10119.labs.zap2it.com"/>

.SH AUTHORS

Achim Schneider,
Billy Biggs.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR tvtime (1),
.BR tvtime-command (1),
.BR tvtime-scanner (1),
.IR tvtime.xml (5).
