.\" Man page for tvtime-scanner
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, 2004  Billy Biggs
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at
.\" your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH tvtime-scanner 1 "September 2004" "tvtime 0.9.13"

.SH NAME
tvtime\-scanner \- an all-band scanner for
.B tvtime
to help users of European cable providers that do not use standard frequencies 

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B tvtime\-scanner
[
.IR OPTION
] ...

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B tvtime\-scanner
allows a user to scan all frequencies for stations.  This is useful for European
cable provides such as
.B UPC
or
.B Casema
which do not use standard frequency tables for their channels.
.B tvtime-scanner
checks for frequencies across the full band and writes it to your
stationlist.xml file in a table called "Custom".  This can be selected by
running "tvtime --frequencies=custom" or by selecting the Custom frequency
table within the OSD menu inside
.B tvtime.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show usage information.

.TP
.B \-F, \-\-configfile=FILE
Additional config file to load settings from.

.TP
.B \-d, \-\-device=NAME
video4linux device to use (defaults to
.IR /dev/video0 ).

.TP
.B \-i, \-\-input=INPUTNUM
video4linux input number (defaults to
.IR 0 ).
Cards commonly have a bunch
of sources, for example, on my WinTV card,
.I source 0
is my tuner and
.I source 1
is the composite input.  The scanner requires using an input
that has a tuner.

.TP
.B \-n, \-\-norm=NORM
The mode to set the tuner to (defaults to
.IR NTSC ).
Valid modes are:
.TS
nokeep tab (@);
l l.
\(bu@NTSC
\(bu@PAL
\(bu@SECAM
\(bu@PAL\-NC
\(bu@PAL\-M
\(bu@PAL\-N
\(bu@NTSC\-JP
.TE

.SH AUTHORS

Billy Biggs.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR tvtime (1),
.BR tvtime-configure (1),
.IR tvtime.xml (5),
