.TH stationlist.xml 5 "April 2003" "tvtime 0.9.8"
.SH NAME
stationlist.xml -- tvtime station configuration file

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B ~/.tvtime/stationlist.xml

.SH DESCRIPTION
The stationlist.xml file contains the configuration of channel
information for capture cards with tuners.  It contains a list of active
channels along with their frequencies, renumbering information, and
channel name.

The stationlist.xml file is created or updated whenever channel
information is changed in tvtime.  This can be done by renumbering a
channel, using the channel scanner, or manually activating or
unactivating a specific channel from the list.

Channel settings are saved specific to norm and frequency table.

       <?xml version="1.0"?>
       <stationlist xmlns="http://tvtime.sourceforge.net/DTD/">
         <list norm="NTSC" frequencies="US-Cable">
         ... station list
         </list>
       </stationlist>

That is, each norm/frequency combination will get its own section in the
configuration file.  The frequencies name is not special, you can have
frequencies=foobar and running
.B 'tvtime -f foobar'
will do the right thing.  The norm, however, must match the norm being
used.

Entries in a list are in the following form:

       <station name="CNN" active="1" position="18"
                band="US Cable" channel="18"/>
       <station name="DSF" active="1" position="12"
                band="VHF E2-E12" channel="E12"/>

  The possible bands and frequencies available in tvtime are:

    Band name           Stations provided
    ---------           -----------------
    US Cable            1 - 125
    US Two-Way          T7, T8, T9, T10, T11, T12 T13, T14
    US Broadcast        2 - 83
    Japan Broadcast     1 - 62
    Japan Cable         13 - 63
    VHF E2-E12          E1 - E12
    VHF S1-S41          S1 - S41
    VHF Misc            X, Y, Z, Z+1, Z+2
    VHF France          K01 - K10, KB - KQ, H01 - H19
    VHF Russia          R1 - R12, SR1 - SR19
    VHF Australia       AS1 - AS12, AS5A, AS9A
    VHF Italy           A - H, H1, H2
    VHF Ireland         I1 - I9
    UHF                 U21 - U69
    Australia Optus     01 - 058

  Custom frequencies can be included manually as follows:

       <station name="2" active="1" position="0"
                band="Custom" channel="55.69MHz"/>


.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP 
Achim Schneider, Billy Biggs

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tvtime (1)
.BR tvtime-command (1)
.BR tvtime.xml (5)
