.\" Man page for tvtime-configure
.\" Copyright (c) 2003  Billy Biggs
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at
.\" your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH tvtime-configure 1 "September 2003" "tvtime 0.9.11"

.SH NAME
tvtime\-configure \- change settings in the
.B tvtime
configuration file

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B tvtime\-configure
[
.IR OPTION
] ...

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B tvtime\-configure
allows a user to set configuration settings for
.B tvtime
without starting the application.  This is useful for installation
programs such as debconf to let them configure tvtime without having
to write a parser for the configuration file.  The command line options
are a subset of those for
.B tvtime
itself.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-a, \-\-widescreen
This option starts
.B tvtime
in 16:9 aspect ratio mode.

.TP
.B \-D, \-\-driver=NAME
This option selects which output driver will be used.  tvtime
currently supports five output drivers: the standard XVIDEO
output, a DirectFB output layer, an experimental DirectFB output
driver specific to the Matrox G400/G450/G550 TV output on the
second head, the mga option interfaces with mplayer's mga_vid
driver for the G400/G200-series cards, and finally the SDL
output driver is included to help with porting to other
driver layers.  Valid options here are:
.TS
nokeep tab (@);
l l.
\(bu@Xv
\(bu@DirectFB
\(bu@matroxtv
\(bu@mga
\(bu@SDL
.TE

.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show usage information.

.TP
.B \-m, \-\-fullscreen
Start
.B tvtime
in fullscreen mode.

.TP
.B \-M, \-\-window
Start
.B tvtime
in windowed mode.

.TP
.B \-p, \-\-fspos=POS
Set the fullscreen window position.  Use this if you
have a projector to help
.B tvtime
fit properly onto your screen.
.TS
nokeep tab (@);
l l.
\(bu@top
\(bu@bottom
\(bu@centre (default)
.TE

.TP
.B \-F, \-\-configfile=FILE
Additional config file to load settings from.

.TP
.B \-H, \-\-height=HEIGHT
Sets the height of the output window to start up at in scanlines.  The
default output window size is
.I 576
scanlines.

.TP
.B -I, \-\-inputwidth=SAMPLING
V4L input scanline sampling (defaults to
.IR 720 .
This sets how many pixels per scanline to request from the capture card.
A higher setting gives better quality, while a lower setting means we do
less work, and so
.B tvtime
will run faster.  If you have a slower CPU
(like, less than 500Mhz or so), maybe values of
.IR 480 \ or\  400
might suit you best.  For best quality, choose a high value like
.IR 720 \ or\  768 .
Many capture cards cannot sample higher than
.I 768
pixels per scanline.

.TP
.B \-d, \-\-device=NAME
video4linux device to use (defaults to
.IR /dev/video0 ).

.TP
.B \-b, \-\-vbidevice=DEVICE
VBI device to use (defaults to
.IR /dev/vbi0 ).

.TP
.B \-i, \-\-input=INPUTNUM
video4linux input number (defaults to
.IR 0 ).
Cards commonly have a bunch
of sources, for example, on my WinTV card,
.I source 0
is my tuner and
.I source 1
is the composite input.

.TP
.B \-c, \-\-channel=CHANNEL
On startup,
.B tvtime
will tune to the given channel.  Otherwise, the
channels from the config file will be used.

.TP
.B \-n, \-\-norm=NORM
The mode to set the tuner to (defaults to
.IR NTSC ).
Valid modes are:
.TS
nokeep tab (@);
l l.
\(bu@NTSC
\(bu@PAL
\(bu@SECAM
\(bu@PAL\-NC
\(bu@PAL\-M
\(bu@PAL\-N
\(bu@NTSC\-JP
.TE

.TP
.B \-f, \-\-frequencies=NAME
The channels you are receiving with the tuner (defaults to
.IR us\-cable ).
Valid values are:
.TS
nokeep tab (@);
l l.
\(bu@us\-cable
\(bu@us\-broadcast
\(bu@japan\-cable
\(bu@japan\-broadcast
\(bu@europe
\(bu@australia
\(bu@australia\-optus
\(bu@newzealand
\(bu@france
\(bu@russia
.TE

.TP
.B \-R, \-\-priority=PRI
Sets the process priority that tvtime should be run at.

.TP
.B \-t, \-\-xmltv=FILE
Reads XMLTV listings from the given file to display on the OSD.  Channels
are looked up based on their name, and
.B tvtime
will display the show title, sub-title
and show description on the OSD.

.TP
.B \-x, \-\-mixer=DEVICE[:CH]
The mixer device and channel for the volume controls. (defaults to
.IR /dev/mixer:line ).
Valid channels are:
.TS
nokeep tab (@);
l l.
\(bu@vol
\(bu@bass
\(bu@treble
\(bu@synth
\(bu@pcm
\(bu@speaker
\(bu@line
\(bu@mic
\(bu@cd
\(bu@mix
\(bu@pcm2
\(bu@rec
\(bu@igain
\(bu@ogain
\(bu@line1
\(bu@line2
\(bu@line3
\(bu@dig1
\(bu@dig2
\(bu@dig3
\(bu@phin
\(bu@phout
\(bu@video
\(bu@radio
\(bu@monitor
.TE


.SH AUTHORS

Billy Biggs.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR tvtime (1),
.IR tvtime.xml (5),
