'\" t
.\" Man page for tvtime
.\" Copyright (c) 2003  Billy Biggs
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at
.\" your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH tvtime 1 "September 2003" "tvtime 0.9.11"

.SH NAME
tvtime \- a high quality television application

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B tvtime
[
.IR OPTION
] ...

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B tvtime
is a high quality television application for use with video capture
cards.
.B tvtime
processes the input from a capture card and displays it on a computer
monitor or projector.

.B tvtime
supports:

.IP \(bu 4
Deinterlaced output at full interlaced rate of 59.94 frames per second
for NTSC source, or 50 frames per second for PAL sources. This gives
smoothness of motion and high visual quality.

.IP \(bu
Multiple deinterlacing algorithms for finding the optimal mode for the
video content and available processor speed.

.IP \(bu
16:9 aspect ratio mode for the highest available resolution when
processing input from an external DVD player or digital satellite
receiver.

.IP \(bu
A super\-slick on\-screen\-display for the complete television
experience, with a featureful menu system.

.SH USAGE

Here are the core set of key bindings you want to learn for using tvtime:

.RS
.TP 15
.I Escape or q
Quit
.TP
.I F1 or tab
Show menu
.TP
.I up/down
Change channels
.TP
.I 0-9 and Enter
Change channels
.TP
.I Backspace
Jump to previous channel
.TP
.I i
Change input
.TP
.I m
Mute
.TP
.I +/-
Volume control
.TP
.I f
Fullscreen
.TP
.I s
Take a screenshot
.TP
.I ?
Display info
.TP
.I d
Display debug statistics
.RE

Here are some advanced keys.  These features are all configurable via the menu,
but some of these may be useful if you use the features often:

.RS
.TP 15
.I left/right
Channel finetuning
.TP
.I < / >
Overscan setting
.TP
.I e
Toggle audio mode (stereo/mono/SAP)
.TP
.I a
Change output aspect ratio
.TP
.I r
Renumber current channel
.TP
.I v
Toggle always-on-top with supporting window managers
.TP
.I p
Toggle pulldown detection (NTSC only)
.TP
.I t
Change deinterlacer
.TP
.I =
Change attempted output framerate
.TP
.I F5/F6/F7
Picture settings
.TP
.I c
Toggle closed caption decoding (NTSC only)
.TP
.I ins
Change matte mode
.RE

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-a, \-\-widescreen
This option starts
.B tvtime
in 16:9 aspect ratio mode.

.TP
.B \-D, \-\-driver=NAME
This option selects which output driver will be used.  tvtime
currently supports five output drivers: the standard XVIDEO
output, a DirectFB output layer, an experimental DirectFB output
driver specific to the Matrox G400/G450/G550 TV output on the
second head, the mga option interfaces with mplayer's mga_vid
driver for the G400/G200-series cards, and finally the SDL
output driver is included to help with porting to other
driver layers.  Valid options here are:
.TS
nokeep tab (@);
l l.
\(bu@Xv
\(bu@DirectFB
\(bu@matroxtv
\(bu@mga
\(bu@SDL
.TE

.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show usage information.

.TP
.B \-k, \-\-slave
Disables keyboard input in
.B tvtime
for slave mode.  Slave mode was added
for integration with PVR applications like
.B freevo
or
.BR mythtv ,
so that
.B freevo
can handle keyboard input while
.B tvtime
is running.  In slave mode, keystrokes are ignored but they are
printed to standard output, and commands are read from standard input in
the same syntax as
.BR tvtime\-command .

.TP
.B \-m, \-\-fullscreen
Start
.B tvtime
in fullscreen mode.

.TP
.B \-M, \-\-window
Start
.B tvtime
in windowed mode.

.TP
.B \-p, \-\-fspos=POS
Set the fullscreen window position.  Use this if you
have a projector to help
.B tvtime
fit properly onto your screen.
.TS
nokeep tab (@);
l l.
\(bu@top
\(bu@bottom
\(bu@centre (default)
.TE


.TP
.B \-s, \-\-showdrops
Print frame skip information (for debugging).

.TP
.B \-S, \-\-saveoptions
Save command line options to the config file.  This will save the V4L
device, VBI device, input number, norm, frequency, startup fullscreen
setting, aspect ratio, verbose mode, and output window height.

.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
The verbose setting indicates that we should print full informational
and warning messages to standard error while running
.BR tvtime .
Otherwise,
only critical errors will be printed to the output.

.TP
.B \-F, \-\-configfile=FILE
Additional config file to load settings from.

.TP
.B \-H, \-\-height=HEIGHT
Sets the height of the output window to start up at in scanlines.  The
default output window size is
.I 576
scanlines.

.TP
.B -I, \-\-inputwidth=SAMPLING
V4L input scanline sampling (defaults to
.IR 720 .
This sets how many pixels per scanline to request from the capture card.
A higher setting gives better quality, while a lower setting means we do
less work, and so
.B tvtime
will run faster.  If you have a slower CPU
(like, less than 500Mhz or so), maybe values of
.IR 480 \ or\  400
might suit you best.  For best quality, choose a high value like
.IR 720 \ or\  768 .
Many capture cards cannot sample higher than
.I 768
pixels per scanline.

.TP
.B \-d, \-\-device=NAME
video4linux device to use (defaults to
.IR /dev/video0 ).

.TP
.B \-b, \-\-vbidevice=DEVICE
VBI device to use (defaults to
.IR /dev/vbi0 ).

.TP
.B \-i, \-\-input=INPUTNUM
video4linux input number (defaults to
.IR 0 ).
Cards commonly have a bunch
of sources, for example, on my WinTV card,
.I source 0
is my tuner and
.I source 1
is the composite input.

.TP
.B \-c, \-\-channel=CHANNEL
On startup,
.B tvtime
will tune to the given channel.  Otherwise, the
channels from the config file will be used.

.TP
.B \-n, \-\-norm=NORM
The mode to set the tuner to (defaults to
.IR NTSC ).
Valid modes are:
.TS
nokeep tab (@);
l l.
\(bu@NTSC
\(bu@PAL
\(bu@SECAM
\(bu@PAL\-NC
\(bu@PAL\-M
\(bu@PAL\-N
\(bu@NTSC\-JP
.TE

.TP
.B \-f, \-\-frequencies=NAME
The channels you are receiving with the tuner (defaults to
.IR us\-cable ).
Valid values are:
.TS
nokeep tab (@);
l l.
\(bu@us\-cable
\(bu@us\-broadcast
\(bu@japan\-cable
\(bu@japan\-broadcast
\(bu@europe
\(bu@australia
\(bu@australia\-optus
\(bu@newzealand
\(bu@france
\(bu@russia
\(bu@custom (first run 'tvtime-scanner')
.TE

.TP
.B \-t, \-\-xmltv=FILE
Reads XMLTV listings from the given file to display on the OSD.  Channels
are looked up based on their name, and
.B tvtime
will display the show title, sub-title
and show description on the OSD.


.TP
.B \-X, \-\-display=DISPLAY
Uses the given X display to connect to.

.TP
.B \-x, \-\-mixer=DEVICE[:CH]
The mixer device and channel for the volume controls. (defaults to
.IR /dev/mixer:line ).
Valid channels are:
.TS
nokeep tab (@);
l l.
\(bu@vol
\(bu@bass
\(bu@treble
\(bu@synth
\(bu@pcm
\(bu@speaker
\(bu@line
\(bu@mic
\(bu@cd
\(bu@mix
\(bu@pcm2
\(bu@rec
\(bu@igain
\(bu@ogain
\(bu@line1
\(bu@line2
\(bu@line3
\(bu@dig1
\(bu@dig2
\(bu@dig3
\(bu@phin
\(bu@phout
\(bu@video
\(bu@radio
\(bu@monitor
.TE


.SH FILES

.I /tvtime/tvtime.xml
.br
.I $HOME/.tvtime/tvtime.xml
.br
.I $HOME/.tvtime/stationlist.xml
.br
.I /var/run/tvtime/TV-*/tvtimefifo

.SH AUTHORS

Billy Biggs,
Doug Bell,
Alexander S. Belov,
Achim Schneider,
David I. Lehn,
Paul Jara,
Robert H\[:o]gberg,
Craig Dooley,
Bart Dorsey,
Nicolas Boos,
Simon Law,
Mark Trolley,
Joachim Koenig,
Stewart Allen,
Justin A,
Brian Goines,
Krister Lagerstrom.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR tvtime-command (1),
.BR tvtime-configure (1),
.BR tvtime-scanner (1),
.IR tvtime.xml (5),
.IR stationlist.xml (5).
