.\" Man page for tvtime-command
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, 2004  Billy Biggs
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at
.\" your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH tvtime-command 1 "July 2004" "tvtime 0.9.13"

.SH NAME
tvtime\-command \- control a running
.B tvtime
process

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B tvtime\-command
.RI [\| COMMAND "\|] ..."

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B tvtime\-command
allows a user to control a running
.B tvtime
process by sending it commands.  It communicates with
.B tvtime
through a FIFO, otherwise known as a named pipe.  Commands are 
case\-insensitive, and are executed in order.

.SH COMMANDS

.TP
.B AUTO_ADJUST_PICT
Restores the picture settings (brightness, contrast, hue, colour) to
their default values.

.TP
.B AUTO_ADJUST_WINDOW
Automatically resize the window to match the content inside it.  This
is for when you resize tvtime into, say, a long rectangle, and want it
to jump back to being a perfect 4:3 box around the content.

.TP
.B BRIGHTNESS_DOWN
Lowers the brightness setting on the input.

.TP
.B BRIGHTNESS_UP
Increases the brightness setting on the input.

.TP
.B CHANNEL_[0\-9]
Simulates a keypad number press.

.TP
.B CHANNEL_ACTIVATE_ALL
Re-activates all channels in the list.  Use this to re-initialize the
channel list before running the scanner if you believe some channels are
missing, or if new channels have become available.

.TP
.B CHANNEL_DEC / CHANNEL_DOWN
Move one channel down in the channel list.

.TP
.B CHANNEL_INC / CHANNEL_UP
Move one channel up in the channel list.

.TP
.B CHANNEL_JUMP / CHANNEL_PREV
Changes to the last channel you were at.  Useful for jumping back and
forth between two programs on distant channels.

.TP
.B CHANNEL_RENUMBER
Renumbers the current channel.  This will swap the current channel with
the number you type in.  Use this to configure your station list to suit
preference or locality.

.TP
.B CHANNEL_SAVE_TUNING
Saves the current fine tuning settings as a custom channel in the
station list.

.TP
.B CHANNEL_SCAN
Walks from the current position through the channel list, disabling any
channels for which no signal is detected.  This command is only
available if signal checking is enabled.

.TP
.B CHANNEL_SKIP
Toggles the current channel as being active or disabled in the station
list.  You can use this to manually scan your channels and enable those
with signal or disable duplicate stations.

.TP
.B COLOUR_DOWN / COLOR_DOWN
Decreases the input colour picture setting.  This will make the image
less colourful until it is black-and-white.

.TP
.B COLOUR_UP / COLOR_UP
Increases the input colour picture setting.  This will give the image
more colour.

.TP
.B CONTRAST_DOWN
Decreases the contrast setting of the input.

.TP
.B CONTRAST_UP
Increases the contrast setting of the input.

.TP
.B DISPLAY_INFO
This will re-display the OSD for the current channel, showing the
channel information, current deinterlacer and framerate, the time, and
input settings.

.TP
.B DISPLAY_MESSAGE
This will display a message along the bottom of the OSD.  Useful for
cron jobs or other scripts to send notifications to a user running
tvtime.

.TP
.B DOWN
This command provides the dual functionality of channel down or menu arrow
down, depending on whether the menu is currently active.  This command is
to be used together with the LEFT, RIGHT and UP commands.

.TP
.B ENTER
Sends a virtual enter command.  Use this when changing the channel:
.br
\h'4n'tvtime-command channel_1 channel_5 enter
.br
will change to channel 15.

.TP
.B FINETUNE_DOWN
Decreases the fine tuning setting for the current channel.

.TP
.B FINETUNE_UP
Increases the fine tuning for the current channel.

.TP
.B HUE_DOWN
Decreases the hue setting of the input.

.TP
.B HUE_UP
Increases the hue setting of the input.

.TP
.B KEY_EVENT
Sends a fake keystroke event to tvtime.  This is useful for
doing complex operations via a remote control, as you can
indirect events to tvtime's internal key binding system.

.TP
.B LEFT
This command provides the dual functionality of mixer volume down or
menu back command, depending on whether the menu is currently active.
This command is to be used together with the RIGHT, UP and DOWN commands.

.TP
.B LUMA_DOWN
Decreases the luma correction value.

.TP
.B LUMA_UP
Increases the luma correction value.

.TP
.B MENU_DOWN
In menu mode, this command moves the cursor down one entry in the menu.

.TP
.B MENU_ENTER
In menu mode, this command selects the current entry or moves forward
one level in the menu.

.TP
.B MENU_EXIT
In menu mode, this command shuts off the menu.

.TP
.B MENU_LEFT
In menu mode, this command moves back one level in the menu.

.TP
.B MENU_RIGHT
In menu mode, this command selects the current entry or moves forward
one level in the menu.

.TP
.B MENU_UP
In menu mode, this command moves the cursor up one entry in the menu.

.TP
.B MIXER_DOWN
Decreases the volume setting for the Line In device from 
.IR /dev/mixer .
An optional parameter specifies the percentage to decrease by.

.TP
.B MIXER_TOGGLE_MUTE
Toggles the mute status with the mixer, and not with the capture card
like
.B TOGGLE_MUTE
does.

.TP
.B MIXER_UP
Increases the volume setting for the Line In device from 
.IR /dev/mixer .
An optional parameter specifies the percentage to increase by.

.TP
.B NOOP
The command to do nothing.  Useful for when you want to blank out one of
the default key bindings in tvtime.

.TP
.B OVERSCAN_DOWN
Decreases the overscan compensation amount.  This will show more of the
captured input.

.TP
.B OVERSCAN_UP
Increases the overscan compensation amount.  This will show less of the
captured input.

.TP
.B PICTURE
Selects which picture setting (brightness/contrast/colour/hue) to change
using the
.B PICTURE_UP
and
.B PICTURE_DOWN
commands.

.TP
.B PICTURE_UP
Increases the current picture setting value (brightness/contrast/colour/hue).

.TP
.B PICTURE_DOWN
Decreases the current picture setting value (brightness/contrast/colour/hue).

.TP
.B RESTART
Asks tvtime to restart itself.  This is used in the menu when we have changed
a value that we can't yet change at runtime.

.TP
.B RIGHT
This command provides the dual functionality of mixer volume up or
menu enter command, depending on whether the menu is currently active.
This command is to be used together with the LEFT, UP and DOWN commands.

.TP
.B RUN_COMMAND
Instructs tvtime to spawn a command.  This can be used to start a program using
a key in tvtime or lirc, such as to spawn mythepg or alevt.  Using
tvtime-command run_command "xterm" will have tvtime call system( "xterm &" ).

.TP
.B SAVE_PICTURE_GLOBAL
Saves the current picture settings as the global defaults.

.TP
.B SAVE_PICTURE_CHANNEL
Saves the current picture settings as the defaults for the current channel
on the tuner.

.TP
.B SCREENSHOT
Asks
.B tvtime
to take a screenshot.  Screenshots are saved to the directory listed as
the screenshot directory in the
.I tvtime.xml
configuration file.  The default is the
running user's home directory.

.TP
.B SET_AUDIO_MODE
This command takes a parameter and sets the current audio mode.  Valid
options are "mono", "stereo", "sap", "lang1" or "lang2".

.TP
.B SET_DEINTERLACER
This command takes a parameter and sets the current deinterlacer.  Valid
options are the short name of any of the deinterlacers available in tvtime.

.TP
.B SET_FRAMERATE
This command takes a parameter and sets the current framerate.  Valid
options are "full", "top" and "bottom".

.TP
.B SET_FREQUENCY_TABLE
This command takes a parameter and sets the current frequency table.

.TP
.B SET_FULLSCREEN_POSITION
This command sets where widescreen output will be aligned when in fullscreen
mode, either top for the top of the screen, center, or bottom.

.TP
.B SET_INPUT_WIDTH
This command takes a parameter and sets the current input width in pixels.
It will be used in tvtime after a restart.

.TP
.B SET_MATTE
This command sets the matte to apply to the output.  This changes the
size of the output window, and is useful for watching a 2.35:1 movie in
a long, thin window, or for watching it at the top of the screen using
the fullscreen position option.  Valid options here are 16:9, 1.85:1,
2.35:1 or 4:3.

.TP
.B SET_NORM
This command takes a parameter and sets the current television standard.
It will be used in tvtime after a restart.

.TP
.B SHOW_DEINTERLACER_INFO
Shows a help screen on the OSD describing the current deinterlacer setting.

.TP
.B SHOW_MENU
This command is used to bring up the tvtime setup menu.

.TP
.B SHOW_STATS
Shows a debug screen showing statistics about the running instance of tvtime.

.TP
.B SLEEP
This command sets the sleep timer to tell tvtime to shut itself off after
a certain amount of time.  Sending this command will first activate the feature,
and sending it again will increase the timer up until a maximum value at which
point it is shut off.

.TP
.B TOGGLE_ALWAYSONTOP
If supported by your window manager, this command will ask to have the
window be put into an "always on top" state, where no other window can
be stacked above it.

.TP
.B TOGGLE_ASPECT
Toggles the display between 4:3 and 16:9 mode.  Use 16:9 mode if you
have configured an external DVD player or satellite receiver to output
anamorphic 16:9 content.

.TP
.B TOGGLE_AUDIO_MODE
Toggles between the available audio modes on this channel.  It can take
some time before the driver discovers that modes are available.

.TP
.B TOGGLE_BARS
Asks
.B tvtime
to display colourbars.  The colourbars are generated by
.B tvtime
and are not related to the capture card, but simply to help
configure your video card and display device.  Once your settings are
correct with these colourbars, try colourbars from an input source like
an external DVD player and make sure they match up.

.TP
.B TOGGLE_CC
Enables closed caption information to be displayed in the
.B tvtime
window.
Closed captioning is only available if you have enabled VBI reading in
your
.I tvtime.xml
configuration file.

.TP
.B TOGGLE_CHROMA_KILL
Enables or disables the chroma killer filter, which makes the input
black and white.  Useful when watching a black-and-white movie to avoid
chrominance artifacts.

.TP
.B TOGGLE_COLOR_INVERT / TOGGLE_COLOUR_INVERT
Turns on or off the colour invert filter.  This is (apparently) useful
for users of the Australian cable company Optus who want to avoid using
the decryption boxes and tune using their capture card directly.

.TP
.B TOGGLE_DEINTERLACER
This toggles between the available deinterlacing methods.

.TP
.B TOGGLE_FULLSCREEN
This toggles between fullscreen and windowed mode.

.TP
.B TOGGLE_FRAMERATE
Toggles the framerate at which
.B tvtime
will output.  Options are full frame
rate (every field deinterlaced to a frame), half frame rate TFF (every
top field deinterlaced to a frame) and half frame rate BFF (every bottom
field deinterlaced to a frame).

.TP
.B TOGGLE_INPUT
Switches the capture card input used.  Among the Inputs are: the
tuner, composite, or S-Video connectors on the capture card.

.TP
.B TOGGLE_LUMA_CORRECTION
This command enables or disables the luma correction feature.
When enabled, this will try to correct for the incorrect colour space
provided by bt848 and bt878 based capture cards.

.TP
.B TOGGLE_MATTE
Switches between the available mattes.  This cuts off the top and
bottom of the input picture to help fit the window to the image
content.

.TP
.B TOGGLE_MIRROR
Turns on or off the mirror filter, which flips the input.  This is
useful for using tvtime with mirroring projectors, although I don't
think it will actually work as intended yet since we don't mirror
the OSD output.  :)  Comments appreciated.

.TP
.B TOGGLE_MUTE
Toggles the mute state in the capture card (and not in
your soundcard).

.TP
.B TOGGLE_NTSC_CABLE_MODE
Toggles the NTSC cable mode settings: 
.IR Standard ,
.IR IRC ", and "
.I HRC
are available.

.TP
.B TOGGLE_PAL_SECAM
Toggles between PAL and SECAM on the current channel.  This feature is
useful for regions which receive both PAL and SECAM channels, such that
tvtime can be configured on a per-channel basis for the correct norm.

.TP
.B TOGGLE_PAUSE
Enters pause mode.  Pause mode is a debugging feature used to
test deinterlacer filters by allowing to see the output of a single set
of frames with various deinterlacers.

.TP
.B TOGGLE_PULLDOWN_DETECTION
Enables or disables the 2\[en]3 pulldown detection feature for NTSC input.

.TP
.B TOGGLE_QUIET_SCREENSHOTS
When this option is turned on, screenshots will not announce themselves
on the OSD.  This is useful if you intend to take a lot of screenshots,
and don't want the text to interrupt your TV watching or appear in other
screenshots.

.TP
.B TOGGLE_SIGNAL_DETECTION
Toggles on and off tvtime's signal detection code.  Signal detection enables
features like channel scanning and increases responsiveness on channels with
poor reception, but may make it impossible to watch stations where the
reception is too bad for the card to detect it reliably.

.TP
.B TOGGLE_XDS
Toggles on and off tvtime's XDS decoding code.  XDS is used to send information
about the channel including the network name and call letters, and
sometimes information about the current show.  This information is then shown
on the OSD and saved to the stationlist.xml file.

.TP
.B UP
This command provides the dual functionality of channel up or menu arrow up,
depending on whether the menu is currently active.  This command is to be
used together with the LEFT, RIGHT and DOWN commands.

.TP
.B QUIT
Asks the running
.B tvtime
process to exit.

.SH AUTHORS

Billy Biggs,
Stewart Allen.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR tvtime (1),
.IR tvtime.xml (5),
.IR stationlist.xml (5).
