.TH tvtimerc 5 "February 2003" "tvtime 0.9.7"
.SH NAME
.LP
\fB$HOME/.tvtime/tvtimerc\fR -- tvtime configuration file

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
$HOME/.tvtime/tvtimerc

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tvtimerc
is the configuration file used by tvtime.
.IP
You can find a default tvtimerc file in the 'docs' subdirectory of the tvtime
source distribution and online at http://tvtime.sourceforge.net/ on the support
page.

.SH SYNTAX
.B tvtimerc
is structured very simply, with one option per line. The following
options are available:
.TP
.B verbose = 0 | 1
The verbose setting indicates that we should print full informational
and warning messages to stderr while running tvtime.  Otherwise, only
fatal errors will be printed to the output. Default: 0.
.TP
.B CaptureSource = n
This sets the default capture source to be opened by tvtime.  Cards
commonly have several sources (i.e. '0' and '1' are the tuner and
composite inputs, respectively on a WinTV card). Default: 0.
.TP
.B V4LDevice = /dev/video<n>
This sets the default capture device to use.
.TP
.B VBIDevice = /dev/vbi<n>
This sets the default vbi device to use.
.TP
.B UseVBI = 1 | 0
This enables the usage of VBI data (XDS, Closed Captioning).
.TP
.B Norm = ntsc | pal | secam | pal-nc | pal-m| pal-n | ntsc-jp
This sets the default TV norm. Default: ntsc.
.TP
.B Frequencies = us-cable | us-broadcast | japan-cable | japan-broadcast | europe | australia | newzealand | france | russia
This sets the default frequency.
.TP
.B FineTuneOffset = n
This sets a constant offset for all tuner frequencies, in kHz.  This
value is always added to the frequency passed to the tuner (and may be
negative).  Note that since these values are in kHz, they may be
incompatible with the fine tuning parameters in xawtv which likely use
the 1/16th MHz convention.  If you use a fine tuner value of 'm' in
xawtv, first try n=m*1000/16 (i.e. '15' in xawtv is '15*1000/16 = 937'
here).
.TP
.B OutputWidth = n
This sets the initial width, in pixels, of the output window.
.TP
.B InputWidth = n
This sets how many pixels per scanline to request from the capture card.
A higher setting gives better quality, while a lower setting requires
less work, which means tvtime runs faster.  With a slower CPU (i.e. <
500 MHz) values of 480 or 400 may be best.  For best quality, use a high
value like 720 or 768.  Many capture cards cannot sample higher than 768
pixels per scanline.
.TP
.B WideScreen = 0 | 1
This enables 16:9 mode by default on startup.
.TP
.B ApplyLumaCorrection = 0 | 1
This enables luma correction functionality on startup.  Luma correction
can be toggled on/off from within tvtime using the 'c' key.
.TP
.B LumaCorrection = n
This sets the magnitude of the luma correction.  A value of 1.0 does
nothing except apply Bt8x8 correction on a Bt8x8-based capture card.
Values less than one make the output darker, and values greater than one
make the output brighter.  The valid range is 0.1 to 10.0 in increments
of 0.1.
.TP
.B DebugMode = 0 | 1
This option enables a special debug mode.  In debug mode, frame drop
information is printed to stderr if tvtime cannot keep up with the
number of frames provided by the capture card.
.TP
.B PreferredDeinterlaceMethod = n
Sets the deinterlace method that will be used by default when tvtime
starts up. Default: 0.
.TP
.B ProcessPriority = n
Sets the default process priority.  Acceptable values are from -20 to
20, with lower values meaning higher priority. Default: -19.
.TP
.B CommandPipe = <path to file>
Tvtime can be controlled by issuing commands (the same as used in the
console) to a file.  This option sets the location of the file you wish
to use as this 'command queue'.  Default: $HOME/.tvtime/tvtimefifo
.TP
.B CheckForSignal = 1 | 0
Toggle whether tvtime should check if there is a signal present when
changing channels.  Owners of quality cards will likely not need to set
this. Default: 0.
.TP
.B NTSCCableMode = Nominal
There are two special NTSC cable standards in the US: IRC and HRC.  In
IRC, channels 5 and 6 are on different frequencies, and HRC mode shifts
all frequencies up by 1.25 MHz (and is also weird on channels 5 and 6).
Default: null value/not set.
.TP
.B ChannelTextFG = colour
This option is the ARGB colour used for the Channel Number in the OSD.
The default is 0xFFFFFF00 (yellow). The colour format can be hex or
decimal. examples: 0xffaadd, 0xff0000ff, 0xff, 0xffff, 255 255 0, 0,
16777215. If the alpha channel is not specified the default is 255
(opaque).
.TP
.B OtherTextFG = colour
This option is the ARGB colour used for all other text in the OSD. The
default is 0xFFF5DEB3 (wheat). The colour format can be hex or decimal.
examples: 0xffaadd, 0xff0000ff, 0xff, 0xffff, 255 255 0, 0, 16777215. If
the alpha channel is not specified the default is 255 (opaque).

.SH KEYBINDINGS
The keybindings for controlling tvtime can be altered by explicitly
declaring the preferred keybindings in the tvtimerc file.  These
keybinding declarations take the form: key_<name> = <key(s)>.  Listed
below, is a key value reference chart, example keybindings, and the
tvtime default keybindings.
.P
.B Reference Chart
.TP
CTRL=C, META=M, SHIFT=S
.TP
F1=F1 ... F15=F15
.TP
ESC=\\0033, UP=\\0421, DOWN=\\0422, LEFT=\\0424, RIGHT=\\0423
.TP
INSERT=\\0425, HOME=\\0426, END=\\0427, PGUP=\\0430, PGDN=\\0431
.TP
PRINTSC=\\0474
.P
.B Examples
.TP
To set the debug key to CTRL + d:
key_debug = C + d
.TP
To set the quit key to CTRL+META+SHIFT+q:
key_quit = C+M+S+q
.TP
To set the volume up key to Right Arrow (RIGHT):
key_mixer_up = \\0423
.P
.B List of key bindings.
.TP
.B key_quit                   = q
Quit tvtime.
.TP
.B key_fullscreen             = f
Toggle fullscreen mode.
.TP
.B key_deinterlacing_mode     = t
Toggle available deinterlacing modes.
.TP
.B key_aspect                 = a
Toggle aspect ratio between 4:3 and 16:9 mode.
.TP
.B key_screenshot             = s
Take a screenshot.
.TP
.B key_debug                  = d
Print debug statistics to stderr.
.TP
.B key_scan_channels          = F10
Scan through all channels.
.TP
.B key_show_bars              = F11
Show Colour Bars.
.TP
.B key_show_credits           = F12
Show TVTime Credits.
.TP
.B key_channel_up             = Up arrow key or k
Increase the channel setting of the tuner.
.TP
.B key_channel_down           = Down arrow key or j
Decrease the channel setting of the tuner.
.TP
.B key_finetune_down          = Left arrow key or h
Fine-tune channel down by .06 MHz.
.TP
.B key_finetune_up            = Right arrow key or l
Fine-tune channel up by .06 MHz.
.TP
.B key_freqlist_down          = [
Previous frequency table.
.TP
.B key_freqlist_up            = ]
Next frequency table.
.TP
.B key_toggle_ntsc_cable_mode = n
Cycle through NTSC cable modes ( normal, IRC, HRC ).
.TP
.B key_hue_down               = F1
Decreases the hue setting of the capture card input.
.TP
.B key_hue_up                 = F2
Increases the hue setting of the capture card input.
.TP
.B key_bright_down            = F3
Decreases the brightness setting of the capture card input.
.TP
.B key_bright_up              = F4
Increases the brightness setting of the capture card input.
.TP
.B key_cont_down              = F5
Decreases the contrast setting of the capture card input.
.TP
.B key_cont_up                = F6
Increases the contrast setting of the capture card input.
.TP
.B key_colour_down            = F7
Decreases the colour setting of the capture card input.
.TP
.B key_colour_up              = F8
Increases the colour setting of the capture card input.
.TP
.B key_tv_video               = i
Switch between the inputs on your card, usually between the tuner, composite input, or S-Video input.
.TP
.B key_mixer_mute             = m
Toggle soundcard line-in mute.
.TP
.B key_mixer_up               = +
Increase volume of tuner audio by 1%.
.TP
.B key_mixer_down             = -
Decrease volume of tuner audio by 1%.
.TP
.B key_luma_correction_toggle = c
Toggle luma correction on/off.
.TP
.B key_luma_up                = j
Decrease correction value by 0.1.
.TP
.B key_luma_down              = h
Increase correction value by 0.1.
.TP
.B key_toggle_console         = `
Activates/Deactivates the tvtime console.
.TP
.B key_toggle_cc              = w
Activates/Deactivates closed-captioning.
.TP
.B key_skip_channel           = r
Makes tvtime skip over the current channel during the current session when channel-surfing.
.TP
.B key_auto_adjust_pict       = \\0040
Tvtime will auto-adjust picture quality settings.
.TP
.B key_toggle_half_framerate  = =
Activates/Deactivates half-framerate mode.
.P
.B Tvtime supports up to 9 mouse button bindings.
.TP
.B mouse_button_1             = display_info
Tvtime will show the information screen (i.e. channel number, time, VBI text).
.TP
.B mouse_button_2             = mixer_mute
Toggle soundcard line-in mute.
.TP
.B mouse_button_3             = tv_video
Switch between the inputs on your card, usually between the tuner, composite input, or S-Video input.
.TP
.B mouse_button_4             = channel_up
Increase the channel setting of the tuner.
.TP
.B mouse_button_5             = channel_down
Decrease the channel setting of the tuner.

.SH SEE ALSO
tvtime(1)
