.\" Man page for tvtime.xml
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, 2004  Billy Biggs
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at
.\" your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH tvtime.xml 5 "July 2004" "tvtime 0.9.13"

.SH NAME
tvtime.xml \- tvtime configuration file

.SH SYNOPSIS

.I ~/.tvtime/tvtime.xml
.br
.I /etc/tvtime/tvtime.xml
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION

The
.I tvtime.xml
file is the main configuration file for
.BR tvtime .
It contains all of the default settings, key bindings, and preset mode
definitions.  The
.I tvtime.xml
file is updated by
.B tvtime
at runtime, to store settings across sessions.  For this reason, you
should not edit the
.I tvtime.xml
file while
.B tvtime
is running, as your changes may be overwritten.

The global syntax is as follows:

    <?xml version="1.0"?>
    <!DOCTYPE tvtime PUBLIC "-//tvtime//DTD tvtime 1.0//EN"
      "http://tvtime.sourceforge.net/DTD/tvtime1.dtd">
    <tvtime xmlns="http://tvtime.sourceforge.net/DTD/">
    </tvtime>

You can find the DTD and other information about the XML configuration
files at
.nh
.UR http://tvtime.sourceforge.net/DTD/
http://tvtime.sourceforge.net/DTD/
.UE
.hy

.SH OPTIONS

.B tvtime
supports a multitude of options.  The <option> tag should be contained
within a <tvtime> tag, or within a <mode> tag.

The following is a list of options and their default values, along with
a description of what the option does.

.TP
<option name="Verbose" value="0"/>
The verbose setting indicates that we should print full informational
and warning messages to stderr while running
.BR tvtime .
Otherwise, only fatal errors will be printed to the output.

.TP
<option name="V4LDevice" value="/dev/video0"/>
This sets the default capture device to use.

.TP
<option name="V4LInput" value="0"/>
This sets the default capture card input to be opened by
.BR tvtime .
For example, for my WinTV card has the tuner as source
.IR 0 ,
and its composite input as source
.IR 1 .
Sources can be changed at runtime using the
.B toggle_input
command, which is key command \(lqi\(rq by default.

.TP
<option name="Norm" value="NTSC"/>
This sets the default TV norm.  Valid options are:
.TS
nokeep tab (@);
l l.
\(bu@NTSC
\(bu@NTSC\-JP
\(bu@SECAM
\(bu@PAL
\(bu@PAL\-Nc
\(bu@PAL\-M
\(bu@PAL\-N
\(bu@PAL\-60
.TE

.TP
<option name="SaveAndRestorePictureSettings" value="1"/>
This option indicates whether
.B
tvtime
should enable its own saving and restoring of picture settings,
both on startup and per channel change.

.TP
<option name="AudioMode" value="stereo"/>
.B
This option saves the last used audio mode.  This will be used to
remember which audio mode to select when the application is next
started.  Valid options here are "mono", "stereo", "lang1", "lang2"
or "sap".

.TP
<option name="AudioBoost" value="-1"/>
.B
This option sets the audio boost.  This is a percentage for how
much to set the volume coming out of the capture card.  By default,
tvtime does not set the audio at all.  However, because the volume
sometimes does not have a sane default, or is reset by other
applications, you can use this valume to have it always set to your
favorite volume.  Use -1 to have tvtime not touch the volume.

.TP
<option name="ShowCC" value="0"/>
.B
This option saves the state of closed caption decoding.  Closed
captions are an NTSC-specific text version of the audio for the
hearing impaired.

.TP
<option name="ColourInvert" value="0"/>
.B
This value saves the on-off state of the colour invert filter across
sessions.

.TP
<option name="MirrorInput" value="0"/>
.B
This value saves the on-off state of the mirror filter across sessions.

.TP
<option name="Frequencies" value="US-Cable"/>
This sets the default frequency table to use for any tuners found.
Possibilities are:
.TS
nokeep tab (@);
l l.
\(bu@us-cable
\(bu@us-broadcast
\(bu@japan-cable
\(bu@japan-broadcast
\(bu@europe
\(bu@australia
\(bu@australia-optus
\(bu@newzealand
\(bu@france
\(bu@russia
.TE

.TP
<option name="NTSCCableMode" value="Standard"/>
There are two special NTSC cable standards in the US: IRC and HRC.
In IRC, channels 5 and 6 are on different frequencies, and HRC mode
shifts all frequencies up by 1.25MHz (and is also weird on channels 5
and 6).  Use this option to set the cable mode to 
.IR Standard ,
.IR IRC ", or "
.IR HRC .
It is very rare that you will see cable systems that use IRC or
HRC cable.


.TP
<option name="CheckForSignal" value="1"/>
Toggle whether
.B tvtime
should check if there is a signal present when changing channels etc.
If your card doesn't suck, you shouldn't need to shut this off.
Disabling this feature will also disable the channel scanner.

.TP
<option name="InputWidth" value="720"/>
This sets how many pixels per scanline to request from the capture card.
A higher setting gives better quality, while a lower setting means we do
less work, and so
.B tvtime
will run faster.  If you have a slower CPU (like, less than 500Mhz or
so), maybe values of
.IR 480 " or " 400
might suit you best.  For best quality, choose a high value like
.IR 720 " or " 768 .
Most capture cards cannot sample higher than
.I 768
pixels per scanline.

.TP
<option name="XMLTVFile" value="none"/>
Set this to a filename to get show listings from an xmltv file.
Set to "none" if you do not wish to use xmltv.

.TP
<option name="XMLTVLanguage" value="none"/>
Set this to a two-letter language code to set the language to use
for entries in the XMLTV file (for example, use "de" for German).
Set to "none" if you wish to use the default language of the file.

.TP
<option name="UseXDS" value="0"/>
Set this to
.I 1
to enable XDS channel information decoding.  This
option is specific to NTSC regions.  XDS is used to send information
about the channel including the network name and call letters, and
sometimes information about the current show.

.TP
<option name="VBIDevice" value="/dev/vbi0"/>
This sets which device to use for VBI decoding.

.TP
<option name="MixerDevice" value="/dev/mixer:line"/>
This sets the mixer device and channel to use.  The format is device
name:channel name.  Valid channels are:

.nh
.IR vol ", " bass ", " treble ", " synth ", " pcm ", " speaker ", "
.IR line ", "  mic ", "  cd ", "  mix ", "  pcm2 ", " rec ", " 
.IR igain ", "  ogain ", "  line1 ", "  line2 ", "  line3 ", "
.IR dig1 ", "  dig2 ", "  dig3 ", "  phin ", " phout ", " video ", "
.IR radio ", "  monitor
.hy

.TP
<option name="Widescreen" value="0"/>
This option enables 16:9 aspect ratio mode by default on startup.

.TP
<option name="OutputHeight" value="576"/>
Default to a
.RI 768\[mu] 576
window.

.TP
<option name="UseWindowPosition" value="0"/>
tvtime can be told to position its window on startup.  Setting
UseWindowPosition to 1 instructs tvtime that it should read its position
from the WindowX and WindowY config file parameters.

.TP
<option name="WindowX" value="320"/>
.TP
<option name="WindowY" value="240"/>
Default to a window position of 320,240.  Only used if UseWindowPosition
is set to 1.

.TP
<option name="Overscan" value="0.0"/>
This sets the percent of the sides to leave to the overscan, that is,
don't show them at all.  Safe action area on a television is 10% in
the overscan, but that's a bit restrictive.  If you want
.B tvtime
to look like a TV, a good value would be about 6\[en]8%.  The value is
in percent, so for 8%, use
.IR 8.0 .

.TP
<option name="Fullscreen" value="0"/>
Set this to
.I 1
to have
.B tvtime
start in fullscreen mode.  This setting is set at runtime so that when 
you quit
.B tvtime
in fullscreen, starting it again will start back in fullscreen mode.

.TP
<option name="FullscreenPosition" value="Centre"/>
Sets the position of the output when in fullscreen mode:
.I top,
.I bottom
or
.I centre.
When set to
.I top,
.B tvtime
in fullscreen will place its output at the top of the screen.  Use
if you have a projector to help
.B tvtime
fit properly onto your screen.

.TP
<option name="FramerateMode" value="0"/>
This sets the framerate of the output from
.BR tvtime .
.RS
.TP 4
.I 0
Full framerate mode, every field is deinterlaced.
59.94fps for NTSC, 50fps for PAL.

.TP
.I 1
Half framerate mode, deinterlace every top field to a frame (TFF).
29.97fps for NTSC, 25fps for PAL.

.TP
.I 2
Half framerate mode, deinterlace every bottom field to a frame (BFF).
29.97fps for NTSC, 25fps for PAL.
.RE
.IP
The two half framerate modes are useful for progressive content from
video game consoles.  Use weave and select either TFF or BFF, whichever
does not exhibit interlace effects.

.TP
<option name="ApplyLumaCorrection" value="0"/>
This indicates whether the luma correction option should be enabled by
default when starting the application.  Luma correction can be turned
on or off within the application using the \(lqc\(rq key.

.TP
<option name="LumaCorrection" value="1.0"/>
This indicates the power for correction.  A value of
.I 1.0
does nothing except apply Bt8x8 correction, if you have a Bt8x8-based
capture card.  Values less than one make the output darker, and values
greater than one make the output brighter.  The valid range is
.IR 0.1 " to " 10.0
in increments of 0.1.

.TP
<option name="ProcessPriority" value="-19"/>
Sets the default process priority.  By default,
.B tvtime
tries to be a real hog and get
.I \[en]19
priority, which is insane, but hey, if a frame comes in we need to
process it right away or it gets dropped, right? :)    Acceptable
values are from
.IR \[en]20 " to " 20 ,
with lower values meaning higher priority (blame
.SM UNIX
for that).

.TP
<option name="TimeFormat" value="%X"/>
Sets the time format to be used in the
.B tvtime
on\-screen display.  The format is a string in the same format as
.BR strftime (3).
The default is to use the time format of your locale.

.TP
<option name="ScreenShotDir" value="~"/>
This is the default directory in which screenshots are placed.
The default is to save them into the user's home directory.

.TP
.PD 0
<option name="ChannelTextFG" value="0xFFFFFF00"/>
.TP
.PD
<option name="OtherTextFG" value="0xFFF5DEB3"/>
These options set the ARGB colours used for the text in the on-screen
display.  The default for the channel name is \(lqyellow\(rq
.RI ( 0xffffff00 ),
and the default for the surrounding text is \(lqwheat\(rq
.RI ( 0xfff5deb3 ).
The colour format can be hexadecimal or decimal.  If the alpha channel
is not specified the default is \(lqopaque\(rq
.RI ( 255 ).

.RS
.TP 10
Examples:
.IR 0xffaadd ,
.IR 0xff0000ff ,
.IR 0xff ,
.IR 0xffff ,
.IR "255 255 0" ,
.IR 0 ,
.IR 16777215 .
.RE

.TP
<option name="PrevChannel" value="2"/>
This setting is saved at runtime to remember the current channel.

.TP
<option name="Channel" value="2"/>
This setting is saved at runtime to remember the previous channel.

.TP
<option name="DeinterlaceMethod" value="AdaptiveAdvanced"/>
This setting is saved at runtime to remember the deinterlacer used.

Supported deinterlacers are:
.RS
.TP 15
.PD 0
.I TelevisionFull
Television: Full Resolution
.TP
.I TelevisionHalf
Television: Half Resolution
.TP
.I BlurVertical
Blur: Vertical
.TP
.I BlurTemporal
Blur: Temporal
.TP
.I AdaptiveSearch
Motion Adaptive: Motion Search
.TP
.I AdaptiveAdvanced
Motion Adaptive: Advanced Detection
.TP
.I AdaptiveSimple
Motion Adaptive: Simple Detection
.TP
.I ProgressiveTFF
Progressive: Top Field First
.TP
.I ProgressiveBFF
Progressive: Bottom Field First
.PD
.RE

.SH MODES

Modes are used to define a certain group of presets and exist within
the <tvtime> tag.  Just like the global <tvtime> tag, a <mode> can
contain any number of <option> tags.

Preset \(lqmodes\(rq may be defined for convenience.  By default,
.B tvtime
ships with two useful modes:
.I LargeWindow
and
.IR SmallWindow .

    <mode name="LargeWindow">
      <option name="DeinterlaceMethod" value="AdaptiveAdvanced"/>
    </mode>

    <mode name="SmallWindow">
      <option name="DeinterlaceMethod" value="TelevisionHalf"/>
      <option name="FramerateMode" value="1"/>
      <option name="OutputHeight" value="288"/>
    </mode>

.SH BINDINGS

Key presses and mouse button clicks can be mapped to
.B tvtime
commands.  For a description of each command, see
.BR tvtime-command (1).

Multiple keys and mouse buttons may be bound to the same command.  For
convenience,
.B tvtime
supplies aliases for special keys.  The special keys known to
.B tvtime
are:

.nh
.IR Up ", " Down ", " Left ", " Right ", " Insert ", " Home ", " End ",R "
.IR PageUp ", " PageDown ", " F1 ", " F2 ", " F3 ", " F4 ", " F5 ", "
.IR F6 ", " F7 ", " F8 ", " F9 ", " F10 ", " F11 ", " F12 ", " F13 ", "
.IR F14 ", " F15 ", " Backspace ", " Escape ", " Enter ", " Print ", " Menu
.hy

An example key binding would be for the command
.IR CHANNEL_INC .
In this case, we have two keys 
.RI ( Up " and " k )
bound to the command as well as a mouse button
.RI ( 4 ).

    <bind command="channel_inc">
      <keyboard key="up"/>
      <keyboard key="k"/>
      <mouse button="4"/>
    </bind>

.SH AUTHOR

Billy Biggs.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR tvtime (1),
.BR tvtime-configure (1),
.BR tvtime-command (1),
.BR tvtime-scanner (1),
.IR stationlist.xml (5).
